Hoyle in the previous lecture we have been talking about tax clustering and natural language processing
and we have been talking about the IDF rectors and we are able to use the IDF vectorize or it's in the
secret learned feature extraction taxed.
We just have to import it.
And with the help of these IDF vectorize are we are able to analyze sentence's articles and documents
and basically we are able to pose the question that was the similarity of two articles for example or
two sentences.
OK.
In this case we are not going to handle articles but we are going to deal with single sentences.
I like machine learning and clustering algorithms.
This is the first sentence.
Apples oranges and any kind of fruits are healthy.
This is the second sentence.
Is it feasible with machine learning algorithm.
This is the third sentence.
And we have the last sentence.
My family is happy because of the Seafoods.
We don't have to use the IDF Well the riser to decide that what are going to be the similar sentences.
These sentences have something to do with computer science machine learning and plastering gargled Adams
machine learning algorithm in this sentence and the sentence is the second sentence and the last sentence
has something to do with health and lifestyle as you can see.
Apples oranges are healthy by family happy because of healthy fruit.
So basically these sentences have something to do with health and fruits and something like this.
OK.
So if we printout the IDF in a matrix form we should end up something like that document to them a matrix.
So it's just going to take all that this thing diverts and it is going to calculate the Kieran's.
Of course not the appearance of one in zero but it's going to calculate the ATF IBF well use.
OK so let's take a look at it.
It's going to return the matrix.
This is for the first sentence.
This is for the second sentence.
This is for the third sentence.
And this is for the last sentence.
But basically we humans do not understand these ideas well.
So that's why if we want to measure similarity we have to use something like this.
The idea of Matrix times the TFI the matrix transpose in a matrix form.
Let's see that.
And let's clear the console and run it again.
It's going to yield us the similarity matrix we have as many rows and as many columns as the number
of sentences or documents as you can see the first line of the matrix is going to tell us that was the
similarity between the first sentence and every other sentence.
Of course the first sentence is similar to its south.
It's not that similar to the second sentence but it's very similar to the sort of sentence.
So these sentences the first one and the third one are very similar.
Of course this is what we are after.
What about the second sentence.
Of course the diagonal they'll use will contain a wands because every single sentence is similar to
the south.
So as you can see the second sentence is very similar to the last sentence.
OK the second sentence is similar to the last sentence.
The third sentence let's take a look at it.
The third sentence is very similar to the first sentence.
OK this is what we have been discussing.
And the last sentence is very similar to the second sentence.
OK.
As far as I am concerned this is why it is good in the past.
These are great games on small data sets because we can get a good grasp what's happening in the background.
So when that happens these IDF vectorize or we are able to compare sentences and we are able to calculate
the similarity matrix in order to measure the similarity of two sentences or two articles or two documents.
So basically this is how we can use T.F. idea where the riser in the next lecture we are going to cluster
documents.
Thanks for watching.